The Jamestown Homeward Bound (song) - Mainsail Café
/
Songs
/
The Jamestown Homeward Bound
The Jamestown Homeward Bound
The
Jamestown
here is an American sloop-of-war built in 1844, not the Confederate gunboat of the same name.
Temporarily disabled. Sorry. Please use the contact form in the sidebar.
The farmer's heart with joy is filled when his crops are good and sound,
But who can feel the wild delight of the sailor homeward bound?
For three long years have passed away since we left freedom's shore
Our long-felt wish has come at last, and we're homeward bound once more.
Ch:
For three long years have passed away since we left freedom's shore
Our long-felt wish has come at last, and we're homeward bound once more.
To where the sky is as clear as the maiden's eye who longs for our return,
To the land where milk and honey flows and liberty it was born.
So fill our sails with the favoring gales, and with shipmates all around
We'll give three cheers for our Starry flag and the
Jamestown
homeward bound.
To the Mediterranean shores we've been, and its beauties we have seen,
And Sicily's grand and lofty hills and Italy's gardens green,
We've gazed on Mount Vesuvius, with its rugged slumbering dome;
Night is the time in that red clime when the sailor thinks of home.
We've strayed round Pompeii's ruined walls, and on them carved our names,
And thought of its ancient beauties past and vanished lordly dames,
And gazed on tombs of mighty kings who oft in battle won,
But what were they all in their sway with our brave Washington?
And now we have arrived in port and stripping's our last job,
And friendly faces look around in search of Bill or Bob.
They see that we are safe at last from the perils of the sea,
Saying, "You're welcome, Columbia's mariners, to your homes and liberty."
From
Roll and Go
by Joanna Carver Colcord (1924)
Metadata
Roud Index:
4700
DT Index:
6497
Forecastle song
American
,
Homeward Bound
,
Named Ship
Explore similar songs
Homeward Bound
Capstan shanty
Liberty for the Sailors
Forecastle song
The Pursuit of the Tiger
Sea song
The Shenandoah
Forecastle song
Fare Thee Well
Heaving shanty
Mainsail Café, 2025
Contact