Paul Jones (song) - Mainsail Café
/
Songs
/
Paul Jones
Paul Jones
Paul Jones
is a song about Captain John Paul Jones and his ship, the USS
Bonhomme Richard
which he named in honor of Benjamin Franklin's
Poor Richard's Almanac
. The ship was built in 1765 and loaned from King Louis XVI of France to be used against the British in 1779. Captain Jones's success was a deciding factor in winning French support for the Revolutionary War. Despite winning the Battle of Flamborough Head on September 23, 1779, the heavily damaged ship could not be saved.
The
Traditional Ballad Index entry for this song
includes a hefty and illuminating collection of notes for this song and its background. It
shows up in broadside collections
at some time before 1839. Laws classified it as an American song, but it is included in British and Scottish broadside prints as well.
The solemn, patriotic chorus in Killen's version is:
Hurrah! Our country, forever, hurrah!
Temporarily disabled. Sorry. Please use the contact form in the sidebar.
An American frigate, call'd the
Richard
by name,
Mounted guns forty-four, form New York she came,
To cruise in the channel of old England's fame,
With a noble commander, Paul Jones was his name.
We had not cruised long, before two sails we espied,
A large forty-four, and a twenty likewise,
Fifty bright shipping, well loaded with stores,
And the convoy stood in for the old Yorkshire shore.
Bout the hour of twelve, we came alongside
With long speaking trumpet; whence came you, he cried.
Come answer me quickly, I hail you no more,
Or else a broadside into you I will pour.
We fought them four glasses, four glasses, so hot,
Till forty bold seamen lay dead on the spot,
And fifty-five more lay bleeding in gore,
While the thund'ring large cannons of Paul Jones did roar.
Our carpenter being frightened, to Paul Jones did say,
Our ship she leaks water since fighting to-day
Paul Jones he made answer in the height of his pride,
If we can do no better, we'll sink alongside.
Paul Jones he then smiled, & to his men did say,
Let every man stand the best of his play,
For broadside for broadside they fought on the main,
Like true buckskin heroes we return'd it again
The
Ceraphus
wove round our ship for to rake,
Which made the proud hearts of the English to ach,
The shot flew so hot, we could not stand it long,
Till the bold British colours from the English came down.
Oh no my brave boys, we have taken a rich prize,
A large forty-four, and a twenty likewise;
To help the poor mothers have reason to weep,
For the loss of their sons in the unfathomed deep.
Bodleian Broadsides Johnson 247
Metadata
Roud Index:
967
Laws Index:
A4
DT Index:
359
,
4621
Forecastle song
War
,
Broadside
Selected recordings:
Rollicking Sea Shanties
Oscar Brand
A Seaman's Garland: Sailors, Ships & Chanteys Vol. 2
Louis Killen
External links:
George Wray recorded by Grainger (1906)
Explore similar songs
The Cumberland's Crew
Forecastle song
The Florida's Cruise
Forecastle song
Nelson's Death and Victory
Forecastle song
Nelson's Victory at Copenhagen
Forecastle song
The Cruel Ship's Captain
Whaling song
Mainsail Café, 2025
Contact