Homeward Bound (song) - Mainsail Café
/
Songs
/
Homeward Bound
Homeward Bound
(Outward Bound)
This shanty shares the jubilant homegoing theme of other songs, including the well-known
Fare Thee Well
. The Roud indices for this family of songs is quite a mess, but the modern lyrics were printed as an English broadside between 1849-1862 (if not earlier). A slightly older version stems from William Upton, writing circa 1790. It is unrelated to the Simon and Garfunkel song of the same name.
The name of the port is easily changed to fit a vessel, but the most prominent recorded versions bid adieu to the Liverpool docks or the Blackwall docks (London home of the East India Company).
A supposed reference for this song is the
The Universal Songster
, but I have been unable to locate it. In volume 3 of the
Songster
, there is indeed a song titled "Homeward Bound", but (1) only the previous song is attributed to Upton and (2) the lyrics bear little resemblance to the printed broadside which is clearly the source of the shanty recorded by Vaughan Williams and others. Instead, the clear predecessor may be found in
The Royal Toast Master: containing many thousands of the best TOASTS Old and New... also The Seaman's Bottle Companion, being a selection of exquisite modern Sea Songs
under the title "Outward Bound - The words by Mr. Upton".
Temporarily disabled. Sorry. Please use the contact form in the sidebar.
At the Blackwall Docks we bid adieu
To Kate and Polly and Sal and Sue.
Our anchor's weighed and the sails unfurled,
We've bound outway across the world,
Hoorah we're outward bound,
Hoorah we're outward bound.
The wind it blows from east-nor'east,
Our ships she sails nine knots at least.
And the girls stand on the docks and cry.
While there's grog we'll ne'er say die,
Hoorah we're outward bound,
Hoorah we're outward bound.
At last the captain comes aboard,
Our sails are bent and we're manned and stored.
And the Peter's hoisted at the fore,
Goodbye to the girls we'll see no more,
Hoorah we're outward bound,
Hoorah we're outward bound.
One day the man on the lookout,
“There's a sail to the wind'ard,“ he will shout,
She's a pilot standing out from the land
And it's up on deck comes every man.
Hoorah we're homeward bound,
Hoorah we're homeward bound.
Now when we get to the Blackwall docks
Them pretty young girls come down in flocks.
And one to the other you'll hear 'em say,
“Oh, here comes Jack with his ten months pay.
For I see you're homeward bound,
I see you're homeward bound.”
And when we get to the
Dog and Bell
Where there's good pizon for to sell,
In comes old Grouser with a smile,
Saying, “Drink my lads, it's worth your while,
For I see you're homeward bound,
Hoorah we're homeward bound.”
But when your money's all gone and spent,
And there's none to be borrowed and none to be lent,
In comes old Grouser with a frown,
Saying, “Get up, Jack, let John sit down,
For I see you're outward bound,
Hoorah we're outward bound.”
Then poor old Jack must understand
The ships in the docks are wanting hands.
So he ups his gear as he's done before
And he says goodbye to his native shore
For he is outward bound,
Hoorah we're outward bound.
As sung by Ewan MacColl
The Old St. Kath'rine's now adieu,
Likewise to Peggy, Kate and Sure,
And Poll of Wapping Sound;
Our anchor's weigh'd, the sails unfurl'd,
And now to plough the wat'ry world,
Yeo, yea! we're outward bound.
Our anchor's weigh'd, etc.
The gale blows fresh, the wind nor-east,
Six knots an hour we feud at least,
Huzza! the shores resoud;
Our thund'ring guns again reply,
And salutations rend the sky,
Yeo, yea! we're outward bound.
Mayhap, ere far we chance to go,
Some rich galleon we'll take in tow,
And such are to be found;
Why, then each man will touch the chink,
And damme, lads like fishes drink,
Yeo yea! we're outward bound.
And should we touch at Malabar,
Or veer to foreign parts afar,
We ne'er shall lack a pound;
Our purser will our wants supply,
And while we've grog, we'll ne'er shall die,
Yeo, yea! we're outward bound.
Old England we shall see again,
Ne'er fear my hearts, and sailors, then
The girls will flock around:
And we like tars, their charms will clench,
And freely board each smiling wench,
Yeo yea! when homeward bound.
Metadata
Roud Index:
927
Roud Index:
1104
Roud Index:
18905
DT Index:
4550
Heaving shanty
,
Capstan shanty
Homeward Bound
,
English
,
Broadside
Selected recordings:
Short Sharp Shanties, Vol. 3
Various artists
On Deck and Below
Tom Sullivan
We'll Either Bend or Break 'Er
Danny Spooner
External links:
Mainly Norfolk entry
Explore similar songs
Good Morning Ladies, All
Halyard shanty
The Jamestown Homeward Bound
Forecastle song
I Am a Brisk and Sprightly Lad
Forecastle song
One More Day
Ceremonial
Fare Thee Well
Ceremonial
Mainsail Café, 2025
Contact