Jack Tar (song) - Mainsail Café
/
Songs
/
Jack Tar
Jack Tar
This song, says Doerflinger, dates back to the eigtheenth century, but the source of his version is Guy Morehouse, of Digby, Nova Scotia. Doerflinger offers the impressive bibliography:
This song, W. A. Berrett writes (English Folk-Songs, p. 55), was sold by English ballad printers as early as 1781. For British variants and references, see Barrett, p. 55; S. Baring-Gould and Cecil Sharp,
Songs of the West
, p. 42; Cecil Sharp, Folk-Songs from Somerset, Series IV, pp. 42, 82; Sharp, English Folk Songs, I, 68; Sharp, One Hundred English FolkSongs, p. 102; Sharp and Baring-Gould, English Folk-Songs for Schoo,s No. 37; JFSS, IV, 342-345; Davis and Tozer, p. 72 (words rewritten?). For American variants see Cox, p. 389; Flanders and Brown
(Brattleboro, 1931), p. 151; Sharp, English Folk Songs from the Southern Appalachians, II, 235. Cf. 'Some Other Girl Shall Wear the Ring,' Wehman's Collection of Songs, No. 10, p. 3.
Temporarily disabled. Sorry. Please use the contact form in the sidebar.
Come all my fair ones,
Come, all my dear ones,
Come and listen unto me.
"Could you fancy a jolly sailor lad
That has just come from sea?
Could you fancy a jolly sailor lad
That has just come from sea?"
"No, I dislike them,
No, I despise them,
For they smell so much of tar!
So begone, you sassy sailor lad,
So begone, you Jack tar.
So begone, you sassy sailor lad,
So begone, you Jack tar."
"I have ships on the ocean, love,
I have money in my pocket, love,
I have gold in great store.
I would give to a poor country girl
If she would wed Jack Tar.
I would give to a poor country girl
If she would wed Jack Tar."
Soon as she heard him say,
Down from her bending knees fell se,
Saying, "Forgive me, my jolly sailor lad,
For I love none but thee.
Forgive me, my jolly sailor lad,
For I love none but thee."
"Do you think I'm foolish, love?
Do you think I'm crazy, love?
Do you think I'm going mad,
For to wed with a poor country girl
That's no fortune to be had?
For to wed with a poor country girl
That's no fortune to be had?"
From
Songs of the Sailor and Lumberman
by William Main Doerflinger (1951, '72, '91)
Metadata
DT Index:
3130
Selected recordings:
Blow Boys Blow
Ewan MacColl
and
A.L. Lloyd
Explore similar songs
Skön Jungfrun Hon Gångar Sig Till Högsta Berg
Heaving shanty
The Maid I Left Behind
Forecastle song
Go to Sea No More
Forecastle song
Our Jack's Come Home Today
Forecastle song
Jolly Roving Tar
Sea song
Mainsail Café, 2025
Contact