The Cruise of the Bigler (song) - Mainsail Café
/
Songs
/
The Cruise of the Bigler
The Cruise of the Bigler
(The Cruise of the Bigelow)
The Cruise of the Bigler
is a fresh-water sailing song. Great Lake voyages did not have the length of clipper trips, but the storms were sufficiently deadly. Work was plenty and recreation was still required as well.
Skillagalee is Isle aux Galeta. Wabbleshanks is Waugoshance.
Sweepstakes could refer to one of several Great Lakes tugboats:
[1]
or
[2]
.
Frank Shay gives a complimentary version by Captain Asel Trueblood of St. Ignance, Michigan, which can be found in the Archive of American Folksong in the Library of Congress. Trueblood explained to Alan Lomax (1915):
I learned this song a good fifty years ago. I was twenty-three at
the time. I’ve walked the old Bigler’s decks many times though I never
sailed on her. She was supposed to be the slowest vessel in the fleet,
and, of course, they had winds and all that and she’d bile along like
everything but the other vessels would beat her. They stopped many
places on the way down, and a new verse was composed about every place
they stopped in and every place they’d pass. And when they got done in
Lake Erie, before they got to Buffalo, they met the fleet coming back.
I knew this feller that composed this song about the Bigler, but I
forgot his name. It was a kind of a jokey song like, because they got
beat. He said they’d a’beat the fleet if the fleet had a’hove to. The
places they stopped in were the whorehouses on the way down, and they’d
get in there drinkin’ beer and singin’ this song, and it bought ‘em a
lot of free beers.
A
clipping from the Toronto Telegram
, Oct. 3, 1942, gives much more information about the ship and the song. The earliest surviving source seems to be due to Emilius Jarvis who recorded it for his sister when he was on the timber drogher
Edward Blake
in 1875. The chorus is evidently borrowed from a fortyniner goldrush shanty.
Eckstorm and Smyth describe in
Minstrelsy of Maine
(1927) that the chorus was also used as a lumber shanty with locally-composed verses. The title given is
Buffalo
.
Temporarily disabled. Sorry. Please use the contact form in the sidebar.
Now my boys if you will listen, I'll sing you a little song,
So sit you down awhile here, I'll not detain you long.
At Milwaukee in October, I chanced to get a "sit,"
On the timber schooner
Bigler
, Belonging to Detroit.
Ch:
Oh, watch her, and catch her, Jump up on her Ju-ba Ju
Oh, give her sheet and let her rip, We're the boys'll put her through!
You ought to've seen her howling, When the wind was blowing free,
On our passage down to Buffalo,
From Milwaukee!
It was a Sunday morning about the hour of ten,
The
Robert Emmett
towed us into Lake Michigan.
We set sail where she left us in the middle of the fleet,
The wind was from the south’ard, so we had to give her sheet.
The wind came up that night, my boys, and blew both stiff and strong,
And swiftly through Lake Michigan the
Bigler
ploughed along.
And far before her foaming bows the dashing waves she'd fling;
With every stitch of canvas set, and the courses wing and wing.
But the wind it came ahead before we reached the Manitou,
And two-and-a-half a day, sir, just suited the
Bigler
's crew,
We kept her to the wind, my boys, as close as she could lie.
At Skillagalee and Wabbleshanks, the entrance to the Strait,
We might have passed the fleet ahead if they'd hove to to wait;
But we swept them all before us, the neatest ever you saw,
Clear out into Lake Huron from the Straits of Mackinaw.
At Huron Lake we passed Presque Isle, and then we bore away;
The wind being fair we soon flew by the Isle of Thunder Bay.
The captain ordered a sharp lookout, the night it being dark,
Our course was steering south-southwest for the light on Point aux Barques.
Now we're off of Point aux Barques, on Michigan's east shore,
A-booming for the river as we've often done before.
Abreast Port Huron light, my boys, both anchors we let go,
And the Sweepstakes came along and took the
Bigler
in tow.
She took the nine of us in tow, we all were fore and aft,
She towed us down to Lake St. Clair and stuck us on the flats.
The Hunter eased her tow-line to give us some relief,
And the
Bigler
went astern and smashed right into the Maple Leaf.
And then the Sweepstakes left us outside the river light,
Lake Erie's blustering winds and stormy waves to fight.
We laid to at the Hen and Chickens, the wind it blew a gale,
And we had to lay till morning, for we could not carry sail.
We made the Eau and passed Long Point, the wind being fresh and free,
And down the Canadian shore we humped, Port Colborne on our lee.
Oh, what is that ahead of us? We knew as we drew near,
'Tis the light upon the "Dummy''; we are nigh to Buffalo pier.
Now the
Bigler
she's arrived at Buffalo port at last,
And under Reed's elevator the
Bigler
she's made fast.
And in some lager-beer saloon we'll take a social glass,
We'll all be jolly shipmates, and we'll let the bottle pass.
Oh, now my song is ended, and I hope it pleases you.
Let's drink to the old
Bigler
, her officers and crew.
I hope she'll sail till kingdom come, command of Cal McKee,
Between the port of Buffalo and Mil-wau-kee.
From
Roll and Go
by Joanna Carver Colcord (1924)
Metadata
DT Index:
5903
Forecastle song
Named Ship
,
Great Lakes
,
Storm
Selected recordings:
The Wind That Tramps the World
David Parry
Explore similar songs
The Donzella and the Ceylon
Forecastle song
The Ship Rambolee
Forecastle song
Red Iron Ore
Forecastle song
The Ward Line
Heaving shanty
The Persia's Crew
Forecastle song
Mainsail Café, 2025
Contact