Row, Bullies, Row (song) - Mainsail Café
/
Songs
/
Row, Bullies, Row
Row, Bullies, Row
(Roll, Julia, Roll; Liverpool Judies; First to California, Oh, Fondly I Went)
The choruses in the multitude versions of this song take some combination of "row" and "roll", "
Julia
" or "bullies".
Julia
, of course, is the name of a ship. A Nova Scotia variant runs "To me roll, roll,
Julia
, roll". Doerflinger notes that Gordon's
Adventure Magazine
used the verses in the shanty "A Long Time Ago" and that David W. Bone published an older, packet-ship version in
Capstan Bars
. Doerflinger's own variant comes from Captain Henry E. Burke of Lunenburg, Nova Scotia.
Stan Hugill says this Liverpool forebitter was popular enough to be
used at the capstan. "Another version is based on a homeward passage
from Frisco to the Bramley-Moore dock, Liverpool, by way of Cape Horn".
In Hugill's version of
Liverpool Judies
, a packet ship sailor
meets a New York crimp offering free liquor if he'll leave the Line. New
York, after all, was a common jumping off point for half-starved
sailors. But even though the sailor refuses the job, he wakes to find
he's been drugged and shanghai'd, shipped off on a Southbound ship.
Eckstorm and Smyth give California version with three verses in
Minstrelsy of Maine
(1927). It was contributed by Captain J. A. Creighton of Thomaston, Maine in 1925, who wrote that there must have been fifty verses, and it told of a sailor's life from beginning to end.
Temporarily disabled. Sorry. Please use the contact form in the sidebar.
To stay in that country was my full intent,
But drinking bad whiskey, like ev'ry damn fool,
Soon got me imported back to Liverpool.
Julia, roll!
Roll! Julia, roll!
The Liverpool girls they've got us in tow!
The
Alaska
of Boston lies down in the Bay,
Waiting for a fair wind to get under way.
The sailors on board, so sick and so sore,
Their whiskey's all gone, they can't get no more.
Here comes our mate, with his jacket so blue;
He's looking for work for the sailors to do.
Then "Jib tops'l halliards!" he loudly does roar,
Saying, "Lay aloft, Paddy, you son of a whore!"
That night off Cape Horn I shall never forget,
And well I remember, I think of it yet,
She was running bows under, and the sailors all wet.
She was scudding twelve knots with her main skys'l set.
Here's to our captain, wherever he be,
He's a friend to his sailors on land or on sea;
But as for our mate, he's a dirty old brute,
And I hope when he dies straight to hell he'll skyhoot.
From
Songs of the Sailor and Lumberman
by William Main Doerflinger (1951, '72, '91)
When I war (was) a youngster I sail'd with the rest,
On a Liverpool packet bound out to the West,
We anchor'd one day in the harbor of Cork
Then put out to sea for the port of New York.
Singin' "roll, roll, bullies roll",
Them Liverpoorl Judies have got us in tow
For forty-two days we wuz hungry an' sore,
Oh, the winds were agin us, the gales they did roar,
Off Battery Point we did anchor at last,
Wid our jibboom hove in an' the canvas all fast.
De boardin'-house masters wuz off in a trice,
A-shoutin' an' promisin' all that wuz nice,
An' one fat ol' crimp he got cotton'd to me,
Sez he, "Yer a fool, lad, ter follow the sea."
Sez he, "There's a job as is waitin' for you,
Wid lashin's o' liquor an' beggar-all to do."
Sez he, "What d'yer say, lad, will you jump her too?"
Sez I, "Ye ol' bastard, I'm damned if I do."
But de best o' intentions dey niver gits far,
After forty-two days at the door of a bar,
I tossed off me liquor an' what d'yer think?
Why the lousy ol' bastard had drugs in me drink.
The next I remembers I woke in de morn,
On a three-skys'l yarder bound south round Cape Horn,
Wid an ol' suit of oilskins an' two pair of sox,
An' a bloomin' great head an' a dose of the pox.
Now all ye young sailors take a warnin' from me,
Keep a watch on yer drinks whin de liquor is free,
An' pay no attention to runner or whore,
Or yer head'll be thick an' yer throat'll be sore.
From
Songs of the Sea
by Stan Hugill (1977)
Metadata
Roud Index:
928
DT Index:
6623
,
3653
Forecastle song
,
Heaving shanty
,
Capstan shanty
Named Ship
Selected recordings:
Blow Boys Blow
Ewan MacColl
and
A.L. Lloyd
Sailors, Ships & Chanteys
Louis Killen
Sailors' Songs and Sea Shanties
Various artists
Explore similar songs
Go To Sea No More
Forecastle song
De Kock
Capstan shanty
Limejuice Ship
Forecastle song
Where Am I To Go, Me Johnnies
Halyard shanty
Paddy West
Forecastle song
Mainsail Café, 2025
Contact