Blow Ye Winds In The Morning (song) - Mainsail Café
/
Songs
/
Blow Ye Winds In The Morning
Blow Ye Winds In The Morning
(Blow, Ye Winds)
The words of this shanty were copied from an old logbook in the New Bedford Public Library. Colcord (
Roll and Go
) could find no whalemen to explain the reference to forty-four points in the whaler's compass.
"Tonbas" is "Tumbez", at the mouth of the Guayaquil River, Ecuador (the whaling rendezvous to which Admiral Porter took his fleet of captured British whalers after his South Pacific raid in 1812).
"Tuckoona" is Talcahuano, on the Chilean coast, though the pronunciation of the name was
Turkeywanna
.
Whall takes a version from a ballad in Percy's
Reliques
called "The Baffled Knight" which includes a separate set of verses. He says it comes from the midshipman's berth rather than the forecastle.
Temporarily disabled. Sorry. Please use the contact form in the sidebar.
'Tis advertised in Boston, New York, and Buffalo,
Five hundred brave Americans, a-whaling for to go, singing,
Ch:
Blow, ye winds in the morning, and blow ye winds, high-o!
Clear away your running gear, and blow ye winds high-o!
They send you to New Bedford, that famous whaling port,
And give you to some land-sharks to board and fit you out.
They send you to a boarding-house, there for a time to dwell;
The thieves they there are thicker than the other side of hell!
They tell you of the clipper-ships a-going in and out,
And say you'll take five hundred sperm before you're six months out,
It's now we're out to sea, my boys, the wind comes on to blow;
One half the watch is sick on deck, the other half below.
But as for the provisions, we don't get half enough;
A little piece of stinking beef and a blamed small bag of duff.
Now comes that damned old compass, it will grieve your heart full sore,
For theirs is two-and-thirty points and we have forty-four.
Next comes the running rigging, which you're all supposed to know;
'Tis "Lay aloft, you son-of-a-gun, or overboard you go!"
The cooper's at the vise-bench, d-making iron poles,
And the mate's upon the main batch a-cursing all our souls.
The Skipper's on the quarter-deck a-squinting at the sails,
When up aloft the lookout sights a school of whales.
"Now clear away the boats, my boys, and after him we'll travel,
But if you get too near his fluke, he'll kick you to the devil!"
Now we have got him turned up, we tow him alongside;
We over with our blubber-hooks and rob him of his hide.
Now the boat-steerer overside the tackle overhauls,
The Skipper's in the main-chains, so loudly he does bawl!
Next comes the stowing down, my boys; 'twill take both night and day,
And you'll all have fifty cents apiece on the hundred and ninetieth lay.
Now we are bound into Tonbas, that blasted whaling port,
And if you run away, my boys, you surely will get caught.
Now we are bound into Tuckoona, full more in their power,
Where the skippers can buy the Consul up for half a barrel of flour!
But now that our old ship is full and we don't give a damn,
We'll bend on all our stu'nsails and sail for Yankee land.
When we get home, our ship made fast, and we get through our sailing,
A winding glass around we'll pass and damn this blubber whaling!
From
Roll and Go
by Joanna Carver Colcord (1924)
Metadata
DT Index:
727
,
728
Forecastle song
,
Whaling song
Selected recordings:
Rollicking Sea Shanties
Oscar Brand
Songs & Sounds of the Sea
National Geographic Society
Favorite Sea Songs - Songs from the Age of Sail
The X-Seamen's Institute
Sea Chanties and Forecastle Songs at Mystic Seaport
Various artists
Explore similar songs
The Weary Whaling Grounds
Whaling song
Captain Bunker
Whaling song
Greenland Bound
Whaling song
The Whaleman's Lament
Whaling song
The Coast of Peru
Whaling song
Mainsail Café, 2025
Contact