The Sailor Cut Down In His Prime (song) - Mainsail Café
/
Songs
/
The Sailor Cut Down In His Prime
The Sailor Cut Down In His Prime
This song evolved from the very popular ballad "The Unfortunate Rake". It has been a British barrack-room favorite.
Harry Cox recorded a unique version in 1953 for Peter Kennedy which may be heard on the Folkways album
Field Trip - England
.
Lou Killen learned a version from Cyril Tawney. Haslar Seawall, at the Haslar Hospital, Gosport, was Tawney's choice to gather the attention of his shipmates.
Temporarily disabled. Sorry. Please use the contact form in the sidebar.
As I was a-walking down by the Royal Albert,
Black was the night and cold was the day;
Who should I see there but one of my shipmates.
Wrapped in a blanket far colder than clay.
He asked for a blanket to wrap 'round his head,
Likewise a candle to light him to bed;
His poor heart was breakin', his poor head was achin',
For he's a young sailor cut down in his prime.
We'll beat the big drums and we'll play the pipes merrily,
Play the dead march as we carry him along,
Take him to the churchyard and fire three volleys o'er him
For he's a young sailor cut down in his prime.
At the corner of the street you will see two girls standing,
One to the other did whisper and say.
"Here comes a young sailor whose money we'll squander,
Here comes a young sailor cut down in his prime."
His kind-hearted mother, his kind-hearted father,
Both of them wondered about his past life,
For along with the flash-girls he would wander,
Along with the flash-girls it was his delight.
As sung by Harry Cox
As I was a-walking down by Haslar Seawall,
Cold was the morning and wet was the day
When who should I spy but one of my shipmates
Wrapped up in flannel yet colder than clay
He called for a candle to light him to bed,
Likewise a flannel to wrap round his head,
For his poor head was aching,
His poor heart was breaking,
And he was a sailor cut down in his prime.
So beat the drum over
And play the fife merrily
Sound the dead march as you carry him on
Take him to the graveyard
Fire four volleys o'er him
He was a young sailor cut down in his prime
Now his good old mother, his dear old father,
They oft-times had told him about his past life
When with those flash girls of the city he'd wander
With flash girls of the city he'd take his dear life.
Now he is dead and is laid lay in his coffin,
Let six strong matalons come carry him along,
And likewise six young girls to carry white roses,
So as not for to smell him as they pass along.
At the corner of the street two young women were standing
One to the other was heard to remark:
"There goes the young sailor whose money we squandered,
Whose life we have tasted and wasted away."
At the top of his headstone these words they are written,
All you young men take a warning by me
And never go courting flash girls in the city,
Flash girls of the city have been the ruin of me.
From
A Seaman's Garland: Sailors, Ships & Chanteys Vol. 2
by
Metadata
Roud Index:
2
Laws Index:
Q26
DT Index:
7208
,
8039
Forecastle song
Selected recordings:
Whiskey Johnny
Jim McGrath & The Reprobates
A Seaman's Garland: Sailors, Ships & Chanteys Vol. 2
Louis Killen
External links:
Mudcat Café thread
Explore similar songs
Black Ball Line
Hauling shanty
Go to Sea No More
Forecastle song
General Taylor
Hauling shanty
The Flying Cloud
Forecastle song
Blow the Man Down
Hauling shanty
Mainsail Café, 2025
Contact