The Girls Around Cape Horn (song) - Mainsail Café
/
Songs
/
The Girls Around Cape Horn
The Girls Around Cape Horn
(The Gallant Frigate Amphitrite; Rounding the Horn)
This song gives the description of a passage to Chile. A brig
Amphitrite
was
active in the 1820s, and could be the historical reference for the
song. Another ship of the same name was lost in 1833 while carrying
female convicts to Australia. Amphitrite, in Greek mythology, is the goddess of the sea and wife of Poseidon.
The song appears as early as 1879 in the journal of Andrew Hicks. The melody was used for variations including Colcord's description of the "famed ship
California
".
The phrase
Blue Peter
refers to the nautical signal flag, a blue P, that signifies "all
persons should report on board as the vessel is about
to proceed to sea.
"
Temporarily disabled. Sorry. Please use the contact form in the sidebar.
The gallant frigate, Amphitrite, she lay in Plymouth Sound,
Blue Peter at the foremast head for we were outward bound;
We was waiting there for orders to send us far from home;
Our orders they come for Rio, and thence around Cape Horn.
When we arrived in Rio we prepared for heavy gales;
We bent on all the rigging, me boys, bent on all new sails.
And they wished us pleasant weather in the rounding of Cape Horn.
In beating off Magellan Strait it blew exceeding hard;
Whilst shortening sail two gallant tars they fell from the topsail yard.
By angry seas the ropes we threw from their poor hands was torn
We were forced to leave them to the sharks that prowl around Cape Horn.
Now when we got round the Horn, my boys, we had some glorious days
And very soon our killick dropped in Valparaiso Bay.
Them pretty girls came down in flocks; I solemnly declare
That they are far before the Plymouth girls with their long and curling hair.
Because they love a jolly sailor when he spends his money free,
They'll laugh, they sing, they merry, merry be, they enjoy a jovial spree.
And when your money it is all gone they won't on you impose,
They are not like them Plymouth girls that'll pawn and sell your clothes.
So it's farewell to Valparaiso and farewell for a while,
Likewise to all them pretty Spanish girls all along the coast of Chile;
If ever l live to be paid off l'll sit and I'll sing this song:
"God bless them pretty Spanish girls we left around Cape Horn."
The famed ship
California
, a ship of high renown,
She lay in Boston harbor, 'long-side of that pretty town,
A-waiting for our orders to sail far from home,
And our orders came from Rio, boys, and then around Cape Horn.
While rounding of Cape Horn, my boys, fair nights and pleasant days.
Next place we dropped our anchor was in Valparaiso Bay,
Where those Spanish girls they did roll down, I solemnly do swear
They far excel those Yankee girls with their dark and wavy hair.
They love a Yankee sailor when he goes on a spree;
He'll dance and sing and make things ring, and his money he will spend free,
And when his money it is all gone on him they won't impose;
They far excel those Liverpool girls who will pawn and steal his clothes.
Here's a health to Valparaiso along the Chile main,
Likewise to those Peruvian girls, they treated me so fine.
If ever I live to get paid off, I'll sit and drink till morn
A health to the dashing Spanish girls I met around Cape Horn.
From
Roll and Go
by Joanna Carver Colcord (1924)
Metadata
Roud Index:
4706
DT Index:
5098
,
6369
Forecastle song
,
Heaving shanty
Selected recordings:
Sailors, Ships & Chanteys
Louis Killen
Whaling and Sailing Songs
Paul Clayton
Born of Another Time
Tom Goux
and
Jacek Sulanowski
External links:
Mainly Norfolk entry
Explore similar songs
A-Roving
Heaving shanty
The Sailor's Way
Forecastle song
Round the Corner
Hauling shanty
Paddy, Lay Back
Capstan shanty
Go to Sea No More
Forecastle song
Mainsail Café, 2025
Contact