Blow, Boys, Blow (song) - Mainsail Café
/
Songs
/
Blow, Boys, Blow
Blow, Boys, Blow
(A Yankee Ship; Blow, Bullies, Blow)
This shanty seems to have originated with the Liverpool packet-trade, shortly after the end of the War of 1812. Along with
Black Ball Line
and
Blow the Man Down
, it is among the most famous of the Western Ocean packet shanties.
Various other couplets make dating the shanty more difficult. In referring to the Yankee ship, one couplet evidently references Civil War days:
What do you think she's got for cargo
Old shot and shell, she breaks the embargo.
Although the named captains and mates mentioned surely
followed the shantyman's preference, the Captain Hayes mentioned here
was lost aboard the
Rainbow
in 1848. Stan Hugill provides a list of alternatives: Pompey Squash, the big buck negro; Bully Hayes, the Down East Bucko; Big Black Jack, the Boston Slugger; Cockeyed Bill, the West End Barber; Santander James, the Rocket from Hell; Negro Dick from New Brunswick; and a Bow-legged Bastard from the Bowery.
Similarly the bill of fare was subject to much variety: "belaying-pin soup and monkey's liver", "mosquito's heart and sandfly's liver," "dandy funk and centipede's whiskers", "nanny goat's horns and a donkey's rudder", "black-eyed peas and a donkey's crupper," or "hot water soup, but slightly thinner."
Variants for the cargo include: "five hundred bottles of German lager", and "four hundred chimps from Santiago".
In some versions, references to slaving ("black sheep that have run the Embargo") point to post-1820s slave trading, when opportunistic captains sought to re-exploit the field after many slavers and pirates of the West Indies and Guinea coast were cleared out by joint national efforts.
Temporarily disabled. Sorry. Please use the contact form in the sidebar.
A Yankee ship came down the river,
Ch:
Blow, boys, blow!
Her masts and spars they shine like silver
Ch:
Blow, my bully boys, blow!
How do you know she's a Yankee liner?
The Stars and Stripes float out behind her.
And who d'you think is captain of her?
Why, Bully Hayes is the captain of her.
And who d'you think is the mate aboard her?
Santander James is the mate aboard her.
Santander James, he's a rocket from hell, boys,
He'll ride you down as you ride the spanker.
And what d'you think they've got for dinner?
Pickled eels' feet and bullock's liver.
Then blow, my bullies, all together,
Blow, my boys, for better weather.
Blow to-day and blow to-morrow,
And blow for all tars in sorrow.
From
Roll and Go
by Joanna Carver Colcord (1924)
Metadata
Roud Index:
703
DT Index:
731
,
732
Hauling shanty
,
Halyard shanty
Packet Trade
Selected recordings:
Rollicking Sea Shanties
Oscar Brand
Blow Boys Blow
Ewan MacColl
and
A.L. Lloyd
External links:
Charles Rosher recorded by Grainger (1907)
Seán Dagher's Shanty of the Week 1
Explore similar songs
John Kanaka
Hauling shanty
Black Ball Line
Hauling shanty
Across the Western Ocean
Ceremonial
Shallow Brown
Hauling shanty
Yellow Meal
Forecastle song
Mainsail Café, 2025
Contact